I started this process during the Applied Visual Design section of the FCC beta. Therefore I will have to go back at somepoint to take notes pertinent to information covered before this point. For now, I'll continue on.

Keywords/Abbreviations:
AVD = Applied Visual Design

End Keywords/Abbreviations

AVD: Change an Elements Relative Position:

CSS treats each HTML element as its own box, which is usually referred to as the CSS Box Model. Block-level items automatically start on a new line (think headings, paragraphs, and divs) while inline items sit within surrounding content (like images or spans). The default layout of elements in this way is called the normal flow of a document, but CSS offers the position property to override it.

When the position of an element is set to relative, it allows you to specify how CSS should move it relative to its current position in the normal flow of the page. It pairs with the CSS offset properties of left or right, and top or bottom. These say how many pixels, percentages, or ems to move the item away from where it is normally positioned. The following example moves the paragraph 10 pixels away from the bottom:

p {
  position: relative;
  bottom: 10px;
}
Changing an element's position to relative does not remove it from the normal flow - other elements around it still behave as if that item were in its default position.

Note
Positioning gives you a lot of flexibility and power over the visual layout of a page. It's good to remember that no matter the position of elements, the underlying HTML markup should be organized and make sense when read from top to bottom. This is how users with visual impairments (who rely on assistive devices like screen readers) access your content.

<AVD:  Move a Relatively Positioned Element with CSS Offsets>
The CSS offsets of top or bottom, and left or right tell the browser how far to offset an item relative to where it would sit in the normal flow of the document. This can be slightly confusing, because you're offsetting an element away from a given spot, which effectively moves it towards the opposite direction. As you saw in the last challenge, using the top offset moved the h2 downwards. Likewise, using a left offset effectively moves an item to the right.

<AVD: Lock an Element to its Parent with Absolute Positioning>
The next option for the CSS position property is absolute, which locks the element in place relative to its parent container. Unlike the relative position, this removes the element from the normal flow of the document, so surrounding items ignore it. The CSS offset properties (top or bottom and left or right) are used to adjust the position.

One nuance with absolute positioning is that it will be locked relative to its closest positioned ancestor. If you forget to add a position rule to the parent item, (this is typically done using position: relative;), the browser will keep looking up the chain and ultimately default to the body tag.

<AVD:  Learn about Tertiary Colors >
Computer monitors and device screens create different colors by combining amounts of red, green, and blue light. This is known as the RGB additive color model in modern color theory. Red (R), green (G), and blue (B) are called primary colors. Mixing two primary colors creates the secondary colors cyan (G + B), magenta (R + B) and yellow (R + G). You saw these colors in the Complementary Colors challenge. These secondary colors happen to be the complement to the primary color not used in their creation, and are opposite to that primary color on the color wheel. For example, magenta is made with red and blue, and is the complement to green.

Tertiary colors are the result of combining a primary color with one of its secondary color neighbors. For example, red (primary) and yellow (secondary) make orange. This adds six more colors to a simple color wheel for a total of twelve.

There are various methods of selecting different colors that result in a harmonious combination in design. One example that can use tertiary colors is called the split-complementary color scheme. This scheme starts with a base color, then pairs it with the two colors that are adjacent to its complement. The three colors provide strong visual contrast in a design, but are more subtle than using two complementary colors.

Here are three colors created using the split-complement scheme:

Color	Hex Code
orange	#FF7D00
cyan	#00FFFF
raspberry	#FF007D

< AVD: Adjust the Hue of a Color >
Colors have several characteristics including hue, saturation, and lightness. CSS3 introduced the hsl() property as an alternative way to pick a color by directly stating these characteristics.

Hue is what people generally think of as 'color'. If you picture a spectrum of colors starting with red on the left, moving through green in the middle, and blue on right, the hue is where a color fits along this line. In hsl(), hue uses a color wheel concept instead of the spectrum, where the angle of the color on the circle is given as a value between 0 and 360.

Saturation is the amount of gray in a color. A fully saturated color has no gray in it, and a minimally saturated color is almost completely gray. This is given as a percentage with 100% being fully saturated.

Lightness is the amount of white or black in a color. A percentage is given ranging from 0% (black) to 100% (white), where 50% is the normal color.

Here are a few examples of using hsl() with fully-saturated, normal lightness colors:

Color	HSL
red	hsl(0, 100%, 50%)
yellow	hsl(60, 100%, 50%)
green	hsl(120, 100%, 50%)
cyan	hsl(180, 100%, 50%)
blue	hsl(240, 100%, 50%)
magenta	hsl(300, 100%, 50%)

< AVD: Create a Gradual CSS Linear Gradient >
Applying a color on HTML elements is not limited to one flat hue. CSS provides the ability to use color transitions, otherwise known as gradients, on elements. This is accessed through the background property's linear-gradient() function. Here is the general syntax:

background: linear-gradient(gradient_direction, color 1, color 2, color 3, ...);

The first argument specifies the direction from which color transition starts - it can be stated as a degree, where 90deg makes a vertical gradient and 45deg is angled like a backslash. The following arguments specify the order of colors used in the gradient.

Example:

background: linear-gradient(90deg, red, yellow, rgb(204, 204, 255));

<AVD: Use a CSS Linear Gradient to Create a Striped Element >

The repeating-linear-gradient() function is very similar to linear-gradient() with the major difference that it repeats the specified gradient pattern. repeating-linear-gradient() accepts a variety of values, but for simplicity, you'll work with an angle value and color stop values in this challenge.

The angle value is the direction of the gradient. Color stops are like width values that mark where a transition takes place, and are given with a percentage or a number of pixels.

In the example demonstrated in the code editor, the gradient starts with the color yellow at 0 pixels which blends into the second color blue at 40 pixels away from the start. Since the next color stop is also at 40 pixels, the gradient immediately changes to the third color green, which itself blends into the fourth color value red as that is 80 pixels away from the beginning of the gradient.

For this example, it helps to think about the color stops as pairs where every two colors blend together.

0px [yellow -- blend -- blue] 40px [green -- blend -- red] 80px

If every two color stop values are the same color, the blending isn't noticeable because it's between the same color, followed by a hard transition to the next color, so you end up with stripes.

< AVD: Use the CSS Transform scale Property to Change the Size of an Element >

To change the scale of an element, CSS has the transform property, along with its scale() function. The following code example doubles the size of all the paragraph elements on the page:

p {
  transform:scale(2);
}

< AVD: Use the CSS Transform scale Property to Scale an Element on Hover >

The transform property has a variety of functions that lets you scale, move, rotate, skew, etc., your elements. When used with pseudo-classes such as :hover that specify a certain state of an element, the transform property can easily add interactivity to your elements.

Here's an example to scale the paragraph elements to 2.1 times their original size when a user hovers over them:

p:hover {
  transform: scale(2.1);
}

< AVD: Create a Graphic Using CSS >

By manipulating different selectors and properties, you can make interesting shapes. One of the easier ones to try is a crescent moon shape. For this challenge you need to work with the box-shadow property that sets the shadow of an element, along with the border-radius property that controls the roundness of the element's corners.

You will create a round, transparent object with a crisp shadow that is slightly offset to the side - the shadow is actually going to be the moon shape you see.

In order to create a round object, the border-radius property should be set to a value of 50%.

You may recall from an earlier challenge that the box-shadow property takes values for offset-x, offset-y, blur-radius, spread-radius and a color value in that order. The blur-radius and spread-radius values are optional.

< AVD: Learn How the CSS @keyframes and animation Properties Work >

To animate an element, you need to know about the animation properties and the @keyframes rule. The animation properties control how the animation should behave and the @keyframes rule controls what happens during that animation. There are eight animation properties in total. This challenge will keep it simple and cover the two most important ones first:

animation-name sets the name of the animation, which is later used by @keyframes to tell CSS which rules go with which animations.

animation-duration sets the length of time for the animation.

@keyframes is how to specify exactly what happens within the animation over the duration. This is done by giving CSS properties for specific "frames" during the animation, with percentages ranging from 0% to 100%. If you compare this to a movie, the CSS properties for 0% is how the element displays in the opening scene. The CSS properties for 100% is how the element appears at the end, right before the credits roll. Then CSS applies the magic to transition the element over the given duration to act out the scene. Here's an example to illustrate the usage of @keyframes and the animation properties:

#anim {
  animation-name: colorful;
  animation-duration: 3s;
}
@keyframes colorful {
  0% {
   background-color: blue;
  }
  100% {
    background-color: yellow;
  }
}
For the element with the anim id, the code snippet above sets the animation-name to colorful and sets the animation-duration to 3 seconds. Then the @keyframes rule links to the animation properties with the name colorful. It sets the color to blue at the beginning of the animation (0%) which will transition to yellow by the end of the animation (100%). You aren't limited to only beginning-end transitions, you can set properties for the element for any percentage between 0% and 100%.

< AVD: 
